all right we I believe we're recording
and let me just start by saying that
this is my friend Joey here in the
background and he's only wearing the hat
indoors to shoot the video okay
well Joey and I got together tonight
because we want to talk about my spear
gun and this here is the spear gun it's
it's a JBL 38 special and from what I
understand there's two basic ways to rig
a spear gun and that's where the shaft
will stay attached to the gun when you
shoot the the other option that I had
available to me was for the shaft to be
separated from the gun that it would
come completely free and that it would
end up in my hand attached to this not
on card and this particular technique
where the shaft flies free is called a
riding rig
anyway we chose the riding rig for
various reasons if you run into some
safety trouble you can let go of your
shaft and the fish and the shaft go away
but the gun stays with you okay because
the gun is actually attached to the vest
by this little clip mmm
so when the shaft is freed I can let go
of the gun and I can work the fish with
this handheld rope along with the cable
that runs to the shaft okay now we're
going to go ahead and involve Joey Joey
why don't you go ahead and ask a couple
of questions that some folks might want
to ask all right how far can this go
well
that's measured in wraps and the cable
that's going to be going from the shaft
to my hand is uh mm has two wraps on it
okay that means it goes from one end of
the barrel down to the trigger mechanism
and we make two wraps with it right
round and round twice and that's
actually on this particular operation
going to
me about a six foot or an eight foot
shot anyway they tell me that's going to
be plenty enough distance at the rig
that the fish are going to come close
enough and then I'm going to have a good
time
any other questions how far out we are
we have this new satellite imagery
system that's available to us and it's
going to show us where the blue water
develops so before we get out there and
have to look around we should have a
pretty good idea of where the blue water
is how you sit those things i Joe is
asking about these rubber straps they're
known as bands and they're pretty
powerful and they have this little piece
of stainless steel
mm it goes from the rubber to the
stainless steel and those look the
stainless steel there's three bands on
this gun and they're going to lock in to
these three notches I'm going to put my
hand behind it now I don't know if you
can see that rubber but there's three
notches where each bands going to lock
in now before you start locking those
bands in you got to make sure that your
shaft is locked into the trigger
mechanism and that your safety is on
safe okay I'm gonna tell you I never
thought this going before myself I'm
only working on what people told me and
a lot of research on the Internet so
don't try it based on what I'm telling
you do your own research take your own
risk I really don't know nothin yet Joe
is pointing out this fancy breakaway tip
it's got a little extra piece of cable
and the way the tip that the design of
the tip is to break away from the shaft
and yet hold the fish that way while the
fish struggles and thrash is about that
your chef doesn't take any damage
because the bent shaft is no good for
use in the gun again so when this fish
is speared a little ring is going to
release these barbs and those Barb's
obviously are going to stop the fish
from coming off
but as the fish Wiggles the tip is going
to break away from the shaft okay and
it's going to come to a stop point so
now your fish is on the cable and it can
do its thrashing about until he's
finished and the cable is going to take
less damage while the fish exhausts his
energy any other question is Joey what
kind of fish you out well there's some
seasons out there shooting at these rigs
in the Gulf of Mexico there's different
seasons for these fish I think basically
we're going to be looking for a red
snapper a Kobe which is also known as a
lemon fish and I think we're going to be
shooting some amberjack that's probably
the three targets that are most common
with with the guys on the boat I think
every now and then they'll take a
Barracuda as well there's a chance to
shoot some trigger fish if they're big
enough again a lot of that's going to
depend on the time of the year that
we're actually out there and there's
also some restraints on how big the fish
need to be before you take them any
other questions what other kind of
equipment is it scuba diving there's
lots of other equipment um as far as the
spear gun goes there's some different
types of spearfishing where the shaft is
not held and in the connection to the
shaft is not held in your hand it's held
on to some floats that are actually up
on the surface and that's for open water
that's some stuff that we don't do
though
all right we want to appreciate y'all
for watching again don't do any of this
based on what I told you I haven't done
it myself and I don't have any real
working knowledge just some research I'd
like to thank brother Stanley for
helping me braid the ropes and pick out
the cable and encouraging me to step out
into this big adventure of spearfishing
Joey the videos over you got to take the
that off